<nowiki>
Source: https://www.linkedin.com/in/tiago-lubiana-178a3784/
Date: 2024-11-23
Title: New role as Wikimedian-in-Residence for the Biodiversity Heritage Library
</nowiki>

I am starting a new role as a '''Wikimedian-in-Residence''' for the Biodiversity Heritage Library, supported by the Smithsonian Libraries and Archives (SLA)! 

For the next 6 months, I will assist the BHL-Wiki partnership in connecting their outstanding corpus to the Wikimedia Foundation ecosystem. The focus will be on the 300.000+ beautiful images of classic biodiversity works and improving their metadata quality via a data model including Structured Data on Wikimedia Commons and linked data on Wikidata.

I am very excited about this role. It is a dream job, combining the data skills I acquired during my PhD with a lifelong passion for biodiversity! If you are curious about the work I am doing, about BHL, and/or Wikipedia, please reach out!

A part of this job is connecting with people around the globe (specially in Africa and South America) to make this corpus actionable for the eco/biodiv challenges in the Global South – so I am eager to collaborate, assist and learn from anyone interested in this angle 🌱 

Oh, and I am super lucky to work with an amazing team, with an outstanding track record of contributions to biodiv / open knowledge, including (but not limited to) the leadership on the BHL-Wiki working group, namely JJ Dearborn, Giovanna Fontenelle, Jake Orlowitz and Siobhan Leachman! Thank you for trusting me for this task – I am eager to see what we will be able to achieve! 

JJ also set up a fantastic blog post that explains a bit of this endeavour:
BHL - Welcome to Tiago Lubiana, Wikimedian-in-residence
Advancing BHL’s Data for a Sustainable Future: Meet Tiago, Our New Wikimedian-in-Residence 

* https://blog.biodiversitylibrary.org/2024/11/meet-tiago-bhl-wikimedian-in-residence.html